# workout_app

This is a workout app being developed for UI Design.

Drift does not support web developement!

***When in developement***
Run 
    flutter build windows
    flutter run
    *select 1, windows*


File breakdown:

*main.dart*
    
    This is what initiates the creation of the app, database, and establishes the theme/style.

*navigation.dart*
    NavBarHandler and _NavBarHandlerState have to do with the bottom navigation bar, essentially creates the widget and ensures it is always visible
        _NavBarHandlerState creates a widget stack in order to navigate between the pages

    NavBarNotifier is called when the index of the bottomNavBar is changed (one of the three buttons are clicked to navigate to a different page) and pops the chosen page out of the stack. *Currently, the profile edit function is commented out, so if wanting to add it back in, the route must be added again in the MyApp class*

    AnimatedNavBar and _AnimatedNavBarState is what makes the bottom navigation bar move and transition as different options are clicked

*homePage.dart*
    Home acts as the directions for the route to the home page, which is _HomeState
    _HomeState contains the contents for the home page, which at the moment includes a large "panic" button and a running clock

*exPage.dart*
    ExScreen acts as the directions and state setter for the exercise page (third page)
    ExPageContent contains the entire third page's contents a layout.
    **There will be heavy comments and explanation on this page as it is complicated**
    This page contains all of the app's database implementations, shows how to get a "snapshot" of the current data and how to use it, as well as how to make queries

*planPage.dart*
    Not developed, has text as a placeholder.

*data.dart*  **IF CHANGING THIS FILE, RUN THE BELOW CMD**
    This is what creates the database and holds the tables that have been established, if wanting more tables/ data columns, add them, and then run *flutter run pub build_runner build*. This properly updates the data.g.dart file, which holds the database information and is required.
*dart.g.dart*
    DO NOT MODIFY. This is autogenerated by the above file and terminal cmd and is not meant to be changed by hand.

*pubspec.yaml*
    This holds the dependencies, development dependencies, and flags as it pertains to Flutter categories. If needing to add/ remove dependencies, once you have completed your modifications, run *flutter pub get* to update *pubspec.lock* and subsequently the project.


**What is colorScheme?**
    In main.dart, there is a colorScheme created "from Seed", which refers to the process of choosing a single color, and the class ColorScheme creates a color pallete that can be identified largely by "primary", "secondary", and "tertiary". There are sublevels within these categories, such as "primaryContainer" which would refer to a container (widget) that has been placed on the "primary" color. Throughout the classes containing the pages' content, you will see references to *Theme.of(context).colorScheme.primary*, which essentially says that the current class being built will use the existing colorScheme from the parent, and it will be the primary color. To change the color pallete, all you have to do it change the seed color in main.dart and rebuild the app.



